OK so the next subnet is 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 64 slash 26.
I'll copy the previous example but remember this is actually a different subnet.
Now the subnet address is slash 64 so we'll need to update these values in the last octet.
So to work out the first host you simply add one to the subnet portion subnet portion is 64.
So 1 added to that is 65.
The next subnet is 128.
So going back to our original example this is the second subnet.
This is the third subnet 128.
That means that the broadcast for the subnet is 127 because 128 minus one equals 127.
This is the next subnet minus one gives us our broadcast for the current subnet lost IP address in the
subnet is 126.
Next one is 125.
Next one is 124.
So there is our subnet broadcast for second lost host and third lost host.
I haven't rechecked the binary.
You could do that if you wanted to.
I'm simply using a quick method to work out the IP addresses so this road needs to be configured with
the first ip address on the serial interface so interface serial 0 1 0 no shut IP address 1 9 2 1 6
8 165 uses that subnet mosque.
So again it's just one more than the broadcast address show IP interface brief there's the IP address
on the serial interface on the Internet router we need to use one less than the next subnet 127 show
IP interface brief on the first serial interface interface serial 0 1 0 no shut IP address 1 9 2 1 6
8 1 1 26 with the subnet mask 127 is the broadcast one less than that gives us a lost IP address so
can we paying 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 sixty five yes we can.
So that's great.
We have IP connectivity between this router and the Internet router and notice and 0 SPF neighbour relationship
has come up the rods were pre configured with arrays P.F. so hopefully this Roddick can now ping the
DNS server on the Internet and notice it can on P.S. 1 can it ping the DNS server yes it can.
If I trace to the DNS server traffic is going to write a one on the Ethan it interface then it's going
to the Internet writer on the serial interface then to the Internet.
The reason it works is this writer has been pre configured with 0 SPF but is also being pre configured
with Network Address Translation The slave is concentrating on subletting so I pre configured the net
and writing protocols so that you didn't have to worry about that.
Can we get to Cisco dot com.
Yes We Can.
Can we get to Facebook.
Dot com yes we can.
So that works on P.C. zero.
What about P.C. to can we get to Cisco dot com.
Yes we can.
Can we get to Facebook dot com.
So I'm hoping and radiate to this point you've learnt a lot about IP addressing subheading how to configure
it and how to make it practical in a network in the next video.
I'm just going to continue doing something very similar for the other subnets and I'm going to speed
it up by using tricks rather than binary.